# The Modelica License 2

### Preamble.

The goal of this license is that Modelica related model
libraries, software, images, documents, data files etc. can be used
freely in the original or a modified form, in open source and in
commercial environments (as long as the license conditions below are
fulfilled, in particular sections 2c) and 2d). The Original Work is
provided free of charge and the use is completely at your own risk.
Developers of free Modelica packages are encouraged to utilize this
license for their work.

The Modelica License applies to any Original Work that contains the
following licensing notice adjacent to the copyright notice(s) for this
Original Work:

**Licensed by \<name of Licensor\> under the Modelica License 2**

### 1. Definitions.

1.  “License” is this Modelica License.
2.  “Original Work” is any work of authorship, including software,
    images, documents, data files, that contains the above licensing
    notice or that is packed together with a licensing notice
    referencing it.
3.  “Licensor” is the provider of the Original Work who has placed this
    licensing notice adjacent to the copyright notice(s) for the
    Original Work. The Original Work is either directly provided by the
    owner of the Original Work, or by a licensee of the owner.
4.  “Derivative Work” is any modification of the Original Work which
    represents, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the
    matter of clarity and as examples:
    1.  Derivative Work shall not include work that remains separable
        from the Original Work, as well as merely extracting a part of
        the Original Work without modifying it.
    2.  Derivative Work shall not include (a) fixing of errors and/or
        (b) adding vendor specific Modelica annotations and/or (c) using
        a subset of the classes of a Modelica package, and/or (d) using
        a different representation, e.g., a binary representation.
    3.  Derivative Work shall include classes that are copied from the
        Original Work where declarations, equations or the documentation
        are modified.
    4.  Derivative Work shall include executables to simulate the models
        that are generated by a Modelica translator based on the
        Original Work (of a Modelica package).

5.  “Modified Work” is any modification of the Original Work with the
    following exceptions: (a) fixing of errors and/or (b) adding vendor
    specific Modelica annotations and/or (c) using a subset of the
    classes of a Modelica package, and/or (d) using a different
    representation, e.g., a binary representation.
6.  "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Original Work for
    making modifications to it and all available documentation
    describing how to modify the Original Work.
7.  “You” means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under,
    and complying with all of the terms of, this License.
8.  “Modelica package” means any Modelica library that is defined with
    the “`package <Name> ... end <Name>;`” Modelica language element.

### 2. Grant of Copyright License.

Licensor grants You a worldwide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive, sublicensable license, for the duration of
the copyright, to do the following:

1.  To reproduce the Original Work in copies, either alone or as part of
    a collection.

2.  To create Derivative Works according to Section 1d) of this License.

3.  To distribute or communicate to the public copies of the Original
    Work or a Derivative Work under this License. No fee, neither as a
    copyright-license fee, nor as a selling fee for the copy as such may
    be charged under this License. Furthermore, a verbatim copy of this
    License must be included in any copy of the Original Work or a
    Derivative Work under this License.\
     For the matter of clarity, it is permitted A) to distribute or
    communicate such copies as part of a (possible commercial)
    collection where other parts are provided under different licenses
    and a license fee is charged for the other parts only and B) to
    charge for mere printing and shipping costs.

4.  To distribute or communicate to the public copies of a Derivative
    Work, alternatively to Section 2c), under any other license of your
    choice, especially also under a license for commercial/proprietary
    software, as long as You comply with Sections 3, 4 and 8 below. \
     For the matter of clarity, no restrictions regarding fees, either
    as to a copyright-license fee or as to a selling fee for the copy as
    such apply.

5.  To perform the Original Work publicly.

6.  To display the Original Work publicly.

### 3. Acceptance.

Any use of the Original Work or a Derivative Work, or
any action according to either Section 2a) to 2f) above constitutes Your
acceptance of this License.

### 4. Designation of Derivative Works and of Modified Works.

The identifying designation of Derivative Work and of Modified Work must be
different to the corresponding identifying designation of the Original
Work. This means especially that the (root-level) name of a Modelica
package under this license must be changed if the package is modified
(besides fixing of errors, adding vendor specific Modelica annotations,
using a subset of the classes of a Modelica package, or using another
representation, e.g. a binary representation).

### 5. Grant of Patent License.

Licensor grants You a worldwide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive, sublicensable license, under patent claims
owned by the Licensor or licensed to the Licensor by the owners of the
Original Work that are embodied in the Original Work as furnished by the
Licensor, for the duration of the patents, to make, use, sell, offer for
sale, have made, and import the Original Work and Derivative Works under
the conditions as given in Section 2. For the matter of clarity, the
license regarding Derivative Works covers patent claims to the extent as
they are embodied in the Original Work only.

### 6. Provision of Source Code.

Licensor agrees to provide You with a
copy of the Source Code of the Original Work but reserves the right to
decide freely on the manner of how the Original Work is provided.\
       For the matter of clarity, Licensor might provide only a binary
representation of the Original Work. In that case, You may (a) either
reproduce the Source Code from the binary representation if this is
possible (e.g., by performing a copy of an encrypted Modelica package,
if encryption allows the copy operation) or (b) request the Source Code
from the Licensor who will provide it to You.

### 7. Exclusions from License Grant.

Neither the names of Licensor, nor
the names of any contributors to the Original Work, nor any of their
trademarks or service marks, may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this Original Work without express prior permission of the
Licensor. Except as otherwise expressly stated in this License and in
particular in Sections 2 and 5, nothing in this License grants any
license to Licensor’s trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or
any other intellectual property, and no patent license is granted to
make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, or import embodiments of any
patent claims.\
       No license is granted to the trademarks of Licensor even if such
trademarks are included in the Original Work, except as expressly stated
in this License. Nothing in this License shall be interpreted to
prohibit Licensor from licensing under terms different from this License
any Original Work that Licensor otherwise would have a right to license.

### 8. Attribution Rights.

You must retain in the Source Code of the
Original Work and of any Derivative Works that You create, all author,
copyright, patent, or trademark notices, as well as any descriptive text
identified therein as an "Attribution Notice". The same applies to the
licensing notice of this License in the Original Work. For the matter of
clarity, “author notice” means the notice that identifies the original
author(s). \
       You must cause the Source Code for any Derivative Works that You
create to carry a prominent Attribution Notice reasonably calculated to
inform recipients that You have modified the Original Work. \
       In case the Original Work or Derivative Work is not provided in
Source Code, the Attribution Notices shall be appropriately displayed,
e.g., in the documentation of the Derivative Work.

### 9. Disclaimer of Warranty.

**The Original Work is provided under this License on an "as is" basis
and without warranty, either express or implied, including, without
limitation, the warranties of non-infringement, merchantability or
fitness for a particular purpose. The entire risk as to the quality of
the Original Work is with You.** This disclaimer of warranty constitutes
an essential part of this License. No license to the Original Work is
granted by this License except under this disclaimer.

### 10. Limitation of Liability.

Under no circumstances and under no
legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or
otherwise, shall the Licensor, the owner or a licensee of the Original
Work be liable to anyone for any direct, indirect, general, special,
incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
result of this License or the use of the Original Work including,
without limitation, damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,
computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages
or losses. This limitation of liability shall not apply to the extent
applicable law prohibits such limitation.

### 11. Termination.

This License conditions your rights to undertake
the activities listed in Section 2 and 5, including your right to create
Derivative Works based upon the Original Work, and doing so without
observing these terms and conditions is prohibited by copyright law and
international treaty. Nothing in this License is intended to affect
copyright exceptions and limitations. This License shall terminate
immediately and You may no longer exercise any of the rights granted to
You by this License upon your failure to observe the conditions of this
license.

### 12. Termination for Patent Action.

This License shall terminate
automatically and You may no longer exercise any of the rights granted
to You by this License as of the date You commence an action, including
a cross-claim or counterclaim, against Licensor, any owners of the
Original Work or any licensee alleging that the Original Work infringes
a patent. This termination provision shall not apply for an action
alleging patent infringement through combinations of the Original Work
under combination with other software or hardware.

### 13. Jurisdiction.

Any action or suit relating to this License may be
brought only in the courts of a jurisdiction wherein the Licensor
resides and under the laws of that jurisdiction excluding its
conflict-of-law provisions. The application of the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly
excluded. Any use of the Original Work outside the scope of this License
or after its termination shall be subject to the requirements and
penalties of copyright or patent law in the appropriate jurisdiction.
This section shall survive the termination of this License.

### 14. Attorneys’ Fees.

In any action to enforce the terms of this
License or seeking damages relating thereto, the prevailing party shall
be entitled to recover its costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection
with such action, including any appeal of such action. This section
shall survive the termination of this License.

### 15. Miscellaneous.

1.  If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such
    provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
    enforceable.
2.  No verbal ancillary agreements have been made. Changes and additions
    to this License must appear in writing to be valid. This also
    applies to changing the clause pertaining to written form.
3.  You may use the Original Work in all ways not otherwise restricted
    or conditioned by this License or by law, and Licensor promises not
    to interfere with or be responsible for such uses by You.

* * * * *

# How to Apply the Modelica License 2

At the top level of your Modelica package and at every important
subpackage, add the following notices in the info layer of the package:

Licensed by \<Licensor\> under the Modelica License 2\
 Copyright © \<year1\>-\<year2\>, \<name of copyright holder(s)\>.

*This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at
your own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms
of the Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the
disclaimer of warranty) see
[Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2](modelica://Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2)
or visit
[http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2](http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2).*

Include a copy of the Modelica License 2 under
**\<library\>.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2** (use
[http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.mo](http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.mo)).
Furthermore, add the list of authors and contributors under
**\<library\>.UsersGuide.Contributors** or
**\<library\>.UsersGuide.Contact**.

For example, sublibrary Modelica.Blocks of the Modelica Standard Library
may have the following notices:

Licensed by Modelica Association under the Modelica License 2\
 Copyright © 1998-2008, Modelica Association.

*This Modelica package is free software and the use is completely at
your own risk; it can be redistributed and/or modified under the terms
of the Modelica License 2. For license conditions (including the
disclaimer of warranty) see
[Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2](modelica://Modelica.UsersGuide.ModelicaLicense2)
or visit
[http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2](http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2).*

For C-source code and documents, add similar notices in the
corresponding file.

For images, add a “readme.txt” file to the directories where the images
are stored and include a similar notice in this file.

In these cases, save a copy of the Modelica License 2 in one directory
of the distribution, e.g.,
[http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.html](http://www.modelica.org/licenses/ModelicaLicense2.html)
in directory
**\<library\>/Resources/Documentation/ModelicaLicense2.html**.

* * * * *

# Frequently Asked Questions

This section contains questions/answer to users and/or distributors of
Modelica packages and/or documents under Modelica License 2. Note, the
answers to the questions below are not a legal interpretation of the
Modelica License 2. In case of a conflict, the language of the license
shall prevail.

### Using or Distributing a Modelica Package under the Modelica License 2

**What are the main differences to the previous version of the Modelica
License?**

1.  Modelica License 1 is unclear whether the licensed Modelica package
    can be distributed under a different license. Version 2 explicitly
    allows that “Derivative Work” can be distributed under any license
    of Your choice, see examples in Section 1d) as to what qualifies as
    Derivative Work (so, version 2 is clearer).

2.  If You modify a Modelica package under Modelica License 2 (besides
    fixing of errors, adding vendor specific Modelica annotations, using
    a subset of the classes of a Modelica package, or using another
    representation, e.g., a binary representation), you must rename the
    root-level name of the package for your distribution. In version 1
    you could keep the name (so, version 2 is more restrictive). The
    reason of this restriction is to reduce the risk that Modelica
    packages are available that have identical names, but different
    functionality.

3.  Modelica License 1 states that “It is not allowed to charge a fee
    for the original version or a modified version of the software,
    besides a reasonable fee for distribution and support”. Version 2
    has a similar intention for all Original Work under Modelica License
    2 (to remain free of charge and open source) but states this more
    clearly as “No fee, neither as a copyright-license fee, nor as a
    selling fee for the copy as such may be charged”. Contrary to
    version 1, Modelica License 2 has no restrictions on fees for
    Derivative Work that is provided under a different license (so,
    version 2 is clearer and has fewer restrictions).

4.  Modelica License 2 introduces several useful provisions for the
    licensee (articles 5, 6, 12), and for the licensor (articles 7, 12,
    13, 14) that have no counter part in version 1.

5.  Modelica License 2 can be applied to all type of work, including
    documents, images and data files, contrary to version 1 that was
    dedicated for software only (so, version 2 is more general).

**Can I distribute a Modelica package (under Modelica License 2) as part
of my commercial Modelica modeling and simulation environment?**

Yes, according to Section 2c). However, you are not allowed to charge a
fee for this part of your environment. Of course, you can charge for
your part of the environment.

**Can I distribute a Modelica package (under Modelica License 2) under a
different license?**

No. The license of an unmodified Modelica package cannot be changed
according to Sections 2c) and 2d). This means that you cannot sell
copies of it, any distribution has to be free of charge.

**Can I distribute a Modelica package (under Modelica License 2) under a
different license when I first encrypt the package?**

No. Merely encrypting a package does not qualify for Derivative Work and
therefore the encrypted package has to stay under Modelica License 2.

**Can I distribute a Modelica package (under Modelica License 2) under a
different license when I first add classes to the package?**

No. The package itself remains unmodified, i.e., it is Original Work,
and therefore the license for this part must remain under Modelica
License 2. The newly added classes can be, however, under a different
license.

**Can I copy a class out of a Modelica package (under Modelica License
2) and include it****unmodified****in a Modelica package under
a****commercial/proprietary license****?**

No, according to article 2c). However, you can include model, block,
function, package, record and connector classes in your Modelica package
under Modelica License 2. This means that your Modelica package could be
under a commercial/proprietary license, but one or more classes of it
are under Modelica License 2.\
Note, a “type” class (e.g., type Angle = Real(unit=”rad”)) can be copied
and included unmodified under a commercial/proprietary license (for
details, see the next question).

**Can I copy a type class or****part****of a model, block, function,
record, connector class, out of a Modelica package (under Modelica
License 2) and include it modified or unmodified in a Modelica package
under a****commercial/proprietary****license**

Yes, according to article 2d), since this will in the end usually
qualify as Derivative Work. The reasoning is the following: A type class
or part of another class (e.g., an equation, a declaration, part of a
class description) cannot be utilized “by its own”. In order to make
this “usable”, you have to add additional code in order that the class
can be utilized. This is therefore usually Derivative Work and
Derivative Work can be provided under a different license. Note, this
only holds, if the additional code introduced is sufficient to qualify
for Derivative Work. Merely, just copying a class and changing, say, one
character in the documentation of this class would be no Derivative Work
and therefore the copied code would have to stay under Modelica License
2.

**Can I copy a class out of a Modelica package (under Modelica License
2) and include it in****modified****form in
a****commercial/proprietary****Modelica package?**

Yes. If the modification can be seen as a “Derivative Work”, you can
place it under your commercial/proprietary license. If the modification
does not qualify as “Derivative Work” (e.g., bug fixes, vendor specific
annotations), it must remain under Modelica License 2. This means that
your Modelica package could be under a commercial/proprietary license,
but one or more parts of it are under Modelica License 2.

**Can I distribute a “save total model” under my commercial/proprietary
license, even if classes under Modelica License 2 are included?**

Your classes of the “save total model” can be distributed under your
commercial/proprietary license, but the classes under Modelica License 2
must remain under Modelica License 2. This means you can distribute a
“save total model”, but some parts might be under Modelica License 2.

**Can I distribute a Modelica package (under Modelica License 2) in
encrypted form?**

Yes. Note, if the encryption does not allow “copying” of classes (in to
unencrypted Modelica source code), you have to send the Modelica source
code of this package to your customer, if he/she wishes it, according to
article 6.

**Can I distribute an executable under my commercial/proprietary
license, if the model from which the executable is generated uses models
from a Modelica package under Modelica License 2?**

Yes, according to article 2d), since this is seen as Derivative Work.
The reasoning is the following: An executable allows the simulation of a
concrete model, whereas models from a Modelica package (without
pre-processing, translation, tool run-time library) are not able to be
simulated without tool support. By the processing of the tool and by its
run-time libraries, significant new functionality is added (a model can
be simulated whereas previously it could not be simulated) and
functionality available in the package is removed (e.g., to build up a
new model by dragging components of the package is no longer possible
with the executable).

**Is my modification to a Modelica package (under Modelica License 2) a
Derivative Work?**

It is not possible to give a general answer to it. To be regarded as "an
original work of authorship", a derivative work must be different enough
from the original or must contain a substantial amount of new material.
Making minor changes or additions of little substance to a preexisting
work will not qualify the work as a new version for such purposes.

### Using or Distributing a Modelica Document under the Modelica License 2

This section is devoted especially for the following applications:

1.  A Modelica tool extracts information out of a Modelica package and
    presents the result in form of a “manual” for this package in, e.g.,
    html, doc, or pdf format.

2.  The Modelica language specification is a document defining the
    Modelica language. It will be licensed under Modelica License 2.

3.  Someone writes a book about the Modelica language and/or Modelica
    packages and uses information which is available in the Modelica
    language specification and/or the corresponding Modelica package.

**Can I sell a manual that was basically derived by extracting
information automatically from a Modelica package under Modelica License
2 (e.g., a “reference guide” of the Modelica Standard Library):**

Yes. Extracting information from a Modelica package, and providing it in
a human readable, suitable format, like html, doc or pdf format, where
the content is significantly modified (e.g. tables with interface
information are constructed from the declarations of the public
variables) qualifies as Derivative Work and there are no restrictions to
charge a fee for Derivative Work under alternative 2d).

**Can I copy a text passage out of a Modelica document (under Modelica
License 2) and use it****unmodified****in my document (e.g. the Modelica
syntax description in the Modelica Specification)?**

Yes. In case you distribute your document, the copied parts are still
under Modelica License 2 and you are not allowed to charge a license fee
for this part. You can, of course, charge a fee for the rest of your
document.

**Can I copy a text passage out of a Modelica document (under Modelica
License 2) and use it in****modified****form in my document?**

Yes, the creation of Derivative Works is allowed. In case the content is
significantly modified this qualifies as Derivative Work and there are
no restrictions to charge a fee for Derivative Work under alternative
2d).

**Can I sell a printed version of a Modelica document (under Modelica
License 2), e.g., the Modelica Language Specification?**

No, if you are not the copyright-holder, since article 2c) does not
allow a selling fee for a (in this case physical) copy. However, mere
printing and shipping costs may be recovered.
